Add doc about linux broker on dotnet scenario (#646)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-authentication-library-dotnet: msal-dotnet-articles/acquiring-tokens/desktop-mobile/linux-broker-net.md

---
# Required metadata
# For more information, see https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/learn-editor-add-metadata?branch=main
# For valid values of ms.service, ms.prod, and ms.topic, see https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/metadata-taxonomies?branch=main

title:       Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux

> description: "Learn how to use MSAL.NET with broker on Linux platform."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to use MSAL.NET with a broker on the Linux platform."
```

author:      xinyuxu1026 # GitHub alias
ms.author:   xinyuxu # Microsoft alias
ms.service:  msal
# ms.prod:   # To use ms.prod, uncomment it and delete ms.service
ms.topic:    how-to
ms.date:     05/05/2025
---

# Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux

> [!NOTE]

> > Microsoft single sign-on for Linux authentication broker support is introduced with `Microsoft.Identity.Client` version v4.69.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Microsoft single sign-on (SSO) for Linux authentication broker support is introduced with `Microsoft.Identity.Client` version v4.69.1.
```

> Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.
```

> Authentication brokers are **not** pre-installed on standalone Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). For [Windows Subsystem for Linux](/windows/wsl/about) (WSL) scenario, WAM (Windows Account Manager) is used as the broker. WAM does come pre-installed on the Windows system. To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, refer to [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An authentication broker is **not** pre-installed on standalone Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). For [Windows Subsystem for Linux](/windows/wsl/about) (WSL) scenario, WAM (Windows Account Manager) is used as the broker. WAM does come pre-installed on the Windows system. To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, see [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).
```

> ## Dependency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

To use the broker, you'll need to install a list of dependencies on the Linux platform:

```bash
libc++-dev
libc++abi-dev
libsecret-tools
libwebkit2gtk-4.0
```

> ## Create a console app on Linux platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a console app on Linux
```

> To use a broker on the Linux platform, set the `BrokerOptions` to `OperatingSystems.Linux`. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a broker on Linux, pass `BrokerOptions.OperatingSystems.Linux` to the `BrokerOptions` instance. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.
```

```csharp
from msal import PublicClientApplication

class Program

>     {

Reviewer: Dedent this code sample to prevent horizontal scrolling on Learn

Author: Updated

            var pcaBuilder = PublicClientApplicationBuilder.Create(ClientID)
                .WithAuthority("https://login.microsoftonline.com/common")
                .WithDefaultRedirectUri()
                .WithBroker(new BrokerOptions(BrokerOptions.OperatingSystems.Linux){
                            ListOperatingSystemAccounts = true,
                            MsaPassthrough = true,
                            Title = "MSAL WSL Test App"
                          })
                .Build();

            AcquireTokenInteractiveParameterBuilder atparamBuilder = pcaBuilder.AcquireTokenInteractive(Scopes);

            AuthenticationResult authenticationResult = atparamBuilder.ExecuteAsync().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
            System.Console.WriteLine(authenticationResult.AccessToken);
        }
    }
```

## Sample App 
A sample application is available for developers who want to try the authentication broker on Linux. The application is located [in the MSAL.NET GitHub repository](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/tree/main/tests/devapps/WAM/NetWSLWam). The app has a dependency of `libx11-dev` package. 

> On Debian-based distributions, please run `sudo apt install libx11-dev` to install the package. `libx11` library is used to get the console window handle on Linux. Here is the example code to use `libx11` to get the window handle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Debian-based distributions, run `sudo apt install libx11-dev` to install the package. The `libx11` library is used to get the console window handle on Linux. Here's the sample code to use `libx11` to get the window handle:

```

```csharp
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

class X11Interop
{
    [DllImport("libX11")]
    public static extern IntPtr XOpenDisplay(IntPtr display);

    [DllImport("libX11")]
    public static extern IntPtr XDefaultRootWindow(IntPtr display);

    public static void Main()
    {
        IntPtr display = XOpenDisplay(IntPtr.Zero);
        if (display == IntPtr.Zero)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Unable to open X display.");
            return;
        }

        IntPtr rootWindow = XDefaultRootWindow(display);
        Console.WriteLine($"Root window handle: {rootWindow}");
    }
}
```

To run the sample app, use the following command:
```dotnetcli
dotnet run --project tests\devapps\WAM\NetWSLWam\test.csproj
```

## WSL Scenario

### Update to the latest version of WSL

> Please make sure you have updated to the latest WSL release. The WAM Account Control dialog is supported in WSL version 2.4.13 and above. Using the broker is not possible with earlier versions. You can check the WSL version using the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enure you have updated to the latest WSL release. The WAM Account Control dialog is supported in WSL versions 2.4.13 and above. Using the broker isn't possible with earlier versions. To check the WSL version, use the following command:
```

```powershell
wsl.exe --version
```

To update WSL, run the following command from Windows Terminal:

```powershell
wsl.exe --update
```

### Set up Keyring in WSL

> MSAL uses `libsecret` on Linux - it is required to communicate with the `keyring` daemon. Users can use [Seahorse](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Seahorse/) (a GNOME application for managing encryption keys and passwords) to manage the `keyring` contents through a Graphical User Interface (GUI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSAL uses `libsecret` on Linux. It is required to communicate with the `keyring` daemon. Users can use [Seahorse](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Seahorse/) (a GNOME application for managing encryption keys and passwords) to manage the `keyring` contents through a Graphical User Interface (GUI).
```

> On Debian-based distributions, you can install the package by running `sudo apt install seahorse` and then following the instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Debian-based distributions, you can install the package by running `sudo apt install seahorse` and then following these instructions:
```

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

An authentication broker is **not** pre-installed on standalone Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). For [Windows Subsystem for Linux](/windows/wsl/about) (WSL) scenario, WAM (Windows Account Manager) is used as the broker. WAM does come pre-installed on the Windows system. To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, see [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

## Prerequisites

> To use the broker, you'll need to install a list of dependencies on the Linux platform:

Reviewer 2: We should also note/link to the user on the fact that dotnet is required to be installed for the sample. Perhaps we can consolidate a "prep step" that calls out  below: 

```bash
sudo apt install seahorse libx11-dev
```

Author: Hi Justin, I added the .net installation part and the version requirement, could you help take a look again? Thanks

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

An authentication broker is **not** pre-installed on standalone Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). For [Windows Subsystem for Linux](/windows/wsl/about) (WSL) scenario, WAM (Windows Account Manager) is used as the broker. WAM does come pre-installed on the Windows system. To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, see [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

## Prerequisites

> MSAL.NET project requires .NET version greater or equal than the version specified in [global.json](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/blob/main/global.json) file, we recommend register the Microsoft package repository and install .NET, please follow the instructions here: [Install .NET on Ubuntu](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#register-the-microsoft-package-repository). And please make sure you have all the [.NET required dependencies](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#dependencies) installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSAL.NET project requires .NET version greater or equal than the version specified in [global.json](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/blob/main/global.json) file, we recommend register the Microsoft package repository and install .NET, please follow the instructions here: [Install .NET on Ubuntu](/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#register-the-microsoft-package-repository). And please make sure you have all the [.NET required dependencies](/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#dependencies) installed.
```

To use the broker, you'll need to install a list of dependencies on the Linux platform:

```bash
libc++-dev
libc++abi-dev
libsecret-tools
libwebkit2gtk-4.0-dev
```

## Create a console app on Linux platform

To use a broker on the Linux platform, set the `BrokerOptions` to `OperatingSystems.Linux`. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.

```csharp

> from msal import PublicClientApplication
> 
> class Program
> {
>     public static string ClientID = "your client id"; //msidentity-samples-testing tenant
>     public static string[] Scopes = { "User.Read" };
>     static void Main(string[] args)
>     {
>         Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
> 
>         var pcaBuilder = PublicClientApplicationBuilder.Create(ClientID)
>             .WithAuthority("https://login.microsoftonline.com/common")
>             .WithDefaultRedirectUri()
>             .WithBroker(new BrokerOptions(BrokerOptions.OperatingSystems.Linux){
>                         ListOperatingSystemAccounts = true,
>                         MsaPassthrough = true,
>                         Title = "MSAL WSL Test App"
>                         })
>             .Build();
> 
>         AcquireTokenInteractiveParameterBuilder atparamBuilder = pcaBuilder.AcquireTokenInteractive(Scopes);
> 
>         AuthenticationResult authenticationResult = atparamBuilder.ExecuteAsync().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
>         System.Console.WriteLine(authenticationResult.AccessToken);
>     }
> }

Reviewer: Use the following code. It looks like the customer also needs to install the Broker package, so that should be mentioned.
```suggestion
using Microsoft.Identity.Client;
using Microsoft.Identity.Client.Broker;

class Program
{
    public static string ClientID = "your client id"; //msidentity-samples-testing tenant
    public static string[] Scopes = { "User.Read" };
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        IPublicClientApplication pcaBuilder = PublicClientApplicationBuilder.Create(ClientID)
            .WithAuthority("https://login.microsoftonline.com/common")
            .WithDefaultRedirectUri()
            .WithBroker(new BrokerOptions(BrokerOptions.OperatingSystems.Linux)
            {
                ListOperatingSystemAccounts = true,
                MsaPassthrough = true,
                Title = "MSAL WSL Test App"
            })
            .Build();

        AcquireTokenInteractiveParameterBuilder atParamBuilder = pcaBuilder.AcquireTokenInteractive(Scopes);

        AuthenticationResult authenticationResult = atParamBuilder.ExecuteAsync().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
        Console.WriteLine(authenticationResult.AccessToken);
    }
}
```

## Prerequisites

MSAL.NET project requires .NET version greater or equal than the version specified in [global.json](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/blob/main/global.json) file, we recommend register the Microsoft package repository and install .NET, please follow the instructions here: [Install .NET on Ubuntu](/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#register-the-microsoft-package-repository). And please make sure you have all the [.NET required dependencies](/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#dependencies) installed.

To use the broker, you'll need to install a list of dependencies on the Linux platform:

> ```bash

Author: Updated

---
# Required metadata
# For more information, see https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/learn-editor-add-metadata?branch=main
# For valid values of ms.service, ms.prod, and ms.topic, see https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/metadata-taxonomies?branch=main

title:       Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux
description: "Learn how to use MSAL.NET with a broker on the Linux platform."
author:      xinyuxu1026 # GitHub alias
ms.author:   xinyuxu # Microsoft alias
ms.service:  msal
# ms.prod:   # To use ms.prod, uncomment it and delete ms.service
ms.topic:    how-to
ms.date:     05/05/2025
---

# Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux

> [!NOTE]

> > Microsoft single sign-on (SSO) for Linux authentication broker support is introduced with `Microsoft.Identity.Client` version v4.69.1.

Reviewer: I think this note should be removed. Instead, add the following .NET CLI commands to the Prereqs section below with minimum required versions:

dotnet add package Microsoft.Identity.Client
dotnet add package Microsoft.Identity.Client.Broker

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

An authentication broker is **not** pre-installed on standalone Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). For [Windows Subsystem for Linux](/windows/wsl/about) (WSL) scenario, WAM (Windows Account Manager) is used as the broker. WAM does come pre-installed on the Windows system. To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, see [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

## Prerequisites

> MSAL.NET project requires .NET version greater or equal than the version specified in [global.json](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/blob/main/global.json) file, we recommend register the Microsoft package repository and install .NET, please follow the instructions here: [Install .NET on Ubuntu](/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#register-the-microsoft-package-repository). And please make sure you have all the [.NET required dependencies](/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu-decision#dependencies) installed.

Reviewer: It isn't clear to me why I should care about what the MSAL.NET project requires.

Reviewer 3: I like the part in which it recommends registering the Microsoft Package Repo and install .NET from it, cause Ubuntu has its own feed and it took me a while to install net8.0.4.

```

## Sample App 
A sample application is available for developers who want to try the authentication broker on Linux. The application is located [in the MSAL.NET GitHub repository](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/tree/main/tests/devapps/WAM/NetWSLWam). The app has a dependency of `libx11-dev` package. 

On Debian-based distributions, run `sudo apt install libx11-dev` to install the package. The `libx11` library is used to get the console window handle on Linux. Here's the sample code to use `libx11` to get the window handle:

```csharp
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

class X11Interop
{
    [DllImport("libX11")]
    public static extern IntPtr XOpenDisplay(IntPtr display);

    [DllImport("libX11")]
    public static extern IntPtr XDefaultRootWindow(IntPtr display);

    public static void Main()
    {
        IntPtr display = XOpenDisplay(IntPtr.Zero);
        if (display == IntPtr.Zero)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Unable to open X display.");
            return;
        }

        IntPtr rootWindow = XDefaultRootWindow(display);
        Console.WriteLine($"Root window handle: {rootWindow}");
    }
}
```

> We recommend play with the sample app using your client id. To run the sample app, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend playing with the sample app using your client ID. To run the sample app, use the following command:

```

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --project tests\devapps\WAM\NetWSLWam\test.csproj
```

## WSL Scenario

### Update to the latest version of WSL

Enure you have updated to the latest WSL release. The WAM Account Control dialog is supported in WSL versions 2.4.13 and above. Using the broker isn't possible with earlier versions. To check the WSL version, use the following command:

```powershell
wsl --version
```

To update WSL, run the following command from Windows Terminal:

```powershell
wsl --update
```

### Set up Keyring in WSL
MSAL uses `libsecret` on Linux. It is required to communicate with the `keyring` daemon. Users can use [Seahorse](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Seahorse/) (a GNOME application for managing encryption keys and passwords) to manage the `keyring` contents through a Graphical User Interface (GUI).

On Debian-based distributions, you can install the package by running `sudo apt install seahorse` and then following these instructions:

1. Run `seahorse` in the terminal.

> 2. In the top left corner, click **+** and create **Password** keyring. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the top left corner, select **+** and create **Password** keyring. 
```

---
# Required metadata
# For more information, see https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/learn-editor-add-metadata?branch=main
# For valid values of ms.service, ms.prod, and ms.topic, see https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/metadata-taxonomies?branch=main

> title:       Use MSAL.NET on Linux with Broker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:       Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux
```

description: "Learn how to use MSAL.NET with broker on Linux platform."
author:      xinyuxu1026 # GitHub alias
ms.author:   xinyuxu # Microsoft alias
ms.service:  msal
# ms.prod:   # To use ms.prod, uncomment it and delete ms.service
ms.topic:    how-to
ms.date:     05/05/2025
---

> # Using MSAL .NET with an Authentication Broker on Linux
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux

```

> [!NOTE]

> > Microsoft Single Sign-on for Linux authentication broker support is introduced with `MSAL.NET` version v4.69.1.

Reviewer: Since you're talking about a specific version, it's better to use the package name.
```suggestion
> Microsoft single sign-on for Linux authentication broker support is introduced with `Microsoft.Identity.Client` version v4.69.1.
```

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

> Authentication brokers are **not** pre-installed on Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, refer to [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

Reviewer 4: For WSL, the broker(WAM) does come pre-installed right, should we include that point here?

Author: Thank you. I just added!

## Dependency

> To use the broker, you will need to install a list of dependencies on Linux platform

Reviewer 4: Should we also include a step that explains how to install msalruntime nuget package for linux as it is a necessary step for broker support

> To use the broker, you will need to install a list of dependencies on Linux platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the broker, you'll need to install a list of dependencies on the Linux platform:
```

```bash
libc++-dev
libc++abi-dev
libsecret-tools
libwebkit2gtk-4.0
```

> ## Create a console app on Linux platform
> To use broker on Linux platform, you need to specify the `BrokerOptions` to `OperationsSystems.Linux`. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a console app on Linux platform

To use a broker on the Linux platform, set the `BrokerOptions` to `OperationsSystems.Linux`. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.

```

```dotnet

> from msal import PublicClientApplication

Reviewer: Update import statement to valid C#

class Program
    {
        public static string ClientID = "your client id"; //msidentity-samples-testing tenant
        public static string[] Scopes = { "User.Read" };
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");

            var pcaBuilder = PublicClientApplicationBuilder.Create(ClientID)
                .WithAuthority("https://login.microsoftonline.com/common")
                .WithDefaultRedirectUri()
                .WithBroker(new BrokerOptions(BrokerOptions.OperatingSystems.Linux){
                            ListOperatingSystemAccounts = true,
                            MsaPassthrough = true,
                            Title = "MSAL WSL Test App"
                          })
                .Build();

            AcquireTokenInteractiveParameterBuilder atparamBuilder = pcaBuilder.AcquireTokenInteractive(Scopes);

            AuthenticationResult authenticationResult = atparamBuilder.ExecuteAsync().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
            System.Console.WriteLine(authenticationResult.AccessToken);
        }
    }
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Could be helpful to also explain how to get the window handle on Linux by using `libx11`

Author: added, thanks

## Sample App 

> There is a sample app in MSAL.NET repo, it's under ./tests/devapps/WAM/NetWSLWam path. The sample app has a dependenc of `libx11-dev` package. Please run `apt install libx11-dev` to install the package. To run the sample app, just run the command below.

Reviewer 4: typo: dependency

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A sample application is available for developers who want to try the authentication broker on Linux. The application is located [in the MSAL.NET GitHub repository](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/tree/main/tests/devapps/WAM/NetWSLWam). The app has a dependency of `libx11-dev` package.

On Debian-based distributions, please run `sudo apt install libx11-dev` to install the package.

To run the sample app, use the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```dotnetcli
```

dotnet run --project tests\devapps\WAM\NetWSLWam\test.csproj
```

## WSL Scenario

### Update to the latest version of WSL

> Please make sure you have updated to the most recent version of WSL. WAM Account Control dialog is supported from WSL version 2.4.13. Otherwise, the broker scenario won't work. Here is the command to update WSL.

Reviewer 3: Specify a version instead of suggesting using the latest

```suggestion
Please ensure you are using WSL version 2.4.13 or higher, as the WAM Account Control dialog is supported starting from this version. Otherwise, the broker scenario won't work.
```

```

> wsl.exe --update

Reviewer 3: You could add the command to see the WSL version installed

```
wsl --version
``

Author: added, thanks

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

Authentication brokers are **not** pre-installed on Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, refer to [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

## Dependency

To use the broker, you'll need to install a list of dependencies on the Linux platform:

```bash
libc++-dev
libc++abi-dev
libsecret-tools
libwebkit2gtk-4.0
```

## Create a console app on Linux platform

> To use a broker on the Linux platform, set the `BrokerOptions` to `OperationsSystems.Linux`. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To use a broker on the Linux platform, set the `BrokerOptions` to `OperatingSystems.Linux`. Notice that we use the same option for both Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and standalone Linux.
```

                            ListOperatingSystemAccounts = true,
                            MsaPassthrough = true,
                            Title = "MSAL WSL Test App"
                          })
                .Build();

            AcquireTokenInteractiveParameterBuilder atparamBuilder = pcaBuilder.AcquireTokenInteractive(Scopes);

            AuthenticationResult authenticationResult = atparamBuilder.ExecuteAsync().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
            System.Console.WriteLine(authenticationResult.AccessToken);
        }
    }
```

## Sample App 
There is a sample app in MSAL.NET repo, it's under ./tests/devapps/WAM/NetWSLWam path. The sample app has a dependenc of `libx11-dev` package. Please run `apt install libx11-dev` to install the package. To run the sample app, just run the command below.
```
dotnet run --project tests\devapps\WAM\NetWSLWam\test.csproj
```

## WSL Scenario

### Update to the latest version of WSL
Please make sure you have updated to the most recent version of WSL. WAM Account Control dialog is supported from WSL version 2.4.13. Otherwise, the broker scenario won't work. Here is the command to update WSL.

> ```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

wsl.exe --update
```

### Set up Keyring in WSL

> We use libsecret on Linux and it needs to communicate with keyring daemon. Users can use `seahorse`(gnome GUI) package to manage the keyring with a user interface. You need to first install the package by `apt install seahorse` and then follow the instructions below.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
MSAL uses `libsecret` on Linux - it is required to communicate with the `keyring` daemon. Users can use [Seahorse](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Seahorse/) (a GNOME application for managing encryption keys and passwords) to manage the `keyring` contents through a Graphical User Interface (GUI).

On Debian-based distributions, you can install the package by running `sudo apt install seahorse` and then following the instructions below.
```

> 1. Run seahorse command

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Run `seahorse` in the terminal.
```

> 2. On the top left corner, click "+" and create Password keyring

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. In the top left corner, click **+** and create **Password** keyring.
```

> 3. Create a keyring with name 'login', and set the password

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Create a keyring named 'login' and set the password.
```

> 4. Run wsl.exe --shutdown

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
4. Run `wsl.exe --shutdown` from your Windows Terminal.
```

> 5. Start a new wsl window and run the test, it should ask you for the keyring password

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
5. Start a new WSL session and run the sample. You should be asked for the keyring password.
```

ms.date:     05/05/2025
---

# Use MSAL.NET with an authentication broker on Linux

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft single sign-on (SSO) for Linux authentication broker support is introduced with `Microsoft.Identity.Client` version v4.69.1.

Using an authentication broker on Linux enables you to simplify how your users authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID from your application, as well as take advantage of future functionality that protects Microsoft Entra ID refresh tokens from exfiltration and misuse.

> An authentication broker is **not** pre-installed on standalone Linux but is bundled as a dependency of applications developed by Microsoft, such as [Company Portal](/mem/intune-service/user-help/enroll-device-linux). These applications are usually installed when a Linux computer is enrolled in a company's device fleet via an endpoint management solution like [Microsoft Intune](/mem/intune/fundamentals/what-is-intune). For [Windows Subsystem for Linux](/windows/wsl/about) (WSL) scenario, WAM (Windows Account Manager) is used as the broker. WAM does come pre-installed on the Windows system. To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, see [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

Reviewer 3: > To learn more about Linux device set up with the Microsoft Identity Platform, see [Microsoft Enterprise SSO plug-in for Apple devices](/entra/identity-platform/apple-sso-plugin).

Could you clarify how this doc for Apple devices is helpful for Linux machines?

{
    [DllImport("libX11")]
    public static extern IntPtr XOpenDisplay(IntPtr display);

    [DllImport("libX11")]
    public static extern IntPtr XDefaultRootWindow(IntPtr display);

    public static void Main()
    {
        IntPtr display = XOpenDisplay(IntPtr.Zero);
        if (display == IntPtr.Zero)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Unable to open X display.");
            return;
        }

        IntPtr rootWindow = XDefaultRootWindow(display);
        Console.WriteLine($"Root window handle: {rootWindow}");
    }
}
```

We recommend play with the sample app using your client id. To run the sample app, use the following command:
```dotnetcli
dotnet run --project tests\devapps\WAM\NetWSLWam\test.csproj
```

## WSL Scenario

### Update to the latest version of WSL

Enure you have updated to the latest WSL release. The WAM Account Control dialog is supported in WSL versions 2.4.13 and above. Using the broker isn't possible with earlier versions. To check the WSL version, use the following command:

```powershell
wsl --version
```

To update WSL, run the following command from Windows Terminal:

```powershell
wsl --update
```

### Set up Keyring in WSL

> MSAL uses `libsecret` on Linux. It is required to communicate with the `keyring` daemon. Users can use [Seahorse](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Seahorse/) (a GNOME application for managing encryption keys and passwords) to manage the `keyring` contents through a Graphical User Interface (GUI).

Reviewer 3: It could be helpful to add more details on how Keyring plays a role with the library and WAM. Keyring might be confused with WAM in some way.
